---
title: CM-100 Meteor Starliner
fulltitle: CM-100 Meteor Starliner
icon: ✨
rgb: 245, 60, 89
image: /images/fullres/spaceplane.jpg
logo: /svg/logos/air.svg
series: aircraft

description: The CM-100 Meteor Starliner is a spaceplane in service with Commonwealth Starlines, and operates the route between Ascension and the Moon.

series: aircraft
draft: false

aliases:
- /cm-100/
---
{{<infobox/machine
	Name="Meteor Starliner"
	Class="CM-100"
	Type="Spaceplane"
	Built="2042-45"
	Crew="8"
	Passengers="100"
	Weight="115 tons"
	Length="60 meters"
	Wingspan="35 meters"
	Speed="3,150 km/h"
	InService="6"
>}}

The **Meteor Starliner** is a class of transatmospheric single-stage-to-orbit spaceplane in service with [[starlines|Commonwealth Starlines]]. It was the third type of commercial spaceplane introduced in the world, and entered service in 2043. They depart from the [[astroport|Vekllei World Astroport]] in [[Ascension]], [[Vekllei]] on revenue service each day, mostly transporting workers and tourists to the Vekllei Lunar Territories. The starliners were manufactured by the Astro Division of the [[gaf|Government Aircraft Factories]].

There are two sets of engines on the *Meteor*, numbering four in total. There are two nuclear-electric atmospheric jets located towards the edge of the wings, which operate during take-off and climb. As the aircraft approaches space, it switches to a pair of underslung nuclear thermal rocket jets, which use [[apollo|Apollo-type Rockets]] powered by the main reactor located over the wings.

The lower fuselage and wings of the spacecraft are lined with carbon and ceramic tiles to protect the vessel from heat in atmospheric reentry. The wings are heavily reinforced with titanium alloy composite struts, which support a single beam across the wingspan of the spacecraft.

The spacecraft can seat 100 passengers in a 2-2 configuration, who accompany eight crew including a pilot, copilot, astronavigator, engineer, purser and three flight attendants. Plastic rails line the interior cabin to assist with movement throughout the flight in space.

Depending on exit and reentry paths, *Meteor* lunar flights last between 20-24 hours. Facilities onboard include a zero-gravity lounge, restrooms and a first aid station, as well as a crew sleeping cabin.

