---
title: A Sketch of a Blood Spirit
date: 2018-03-03
tags:
    - post
    - 2018
categories:
    - archive
keywords:
    - post
    - 2018
image: /images/demonattack.jpg
---
{{< button href="https://www.reddit.com/r/worldbuilding/comments/81e85j/a_sketch_of_a_blood_spirit/" >}}Archived from the original article here{{< /button >}}
{{< hint warning >}}

❖ This article predates the project, and **should be considered non-canon**.
{{< /hint >}}

*Blood spirits* are unaware people have physical forms. Why should they? No person has entered the realm of the spirits in a millenia.

When the Princess of the Earth arrived, after the nuclear exchange between the United States and China, one of the first encounters she had with a spirit in their homeworld was a blood spirit tearing her apart while looking for food. She was fully in proper kit for a trip to the spirit world  —  the lanterns are to keep both her safety among the spirits and to let her blood flow properly respectively, and the orbs around her neck are filled with soil from her homeland to keep her body attached to the spirit world.

While she cannot die in this place, she retains full control of her nervous system, a bone of fact that was proved when the pain of having a hole torn through her hit her brain all at once.

Blood spirits, despite their name, actually take all kinds of fluids from spirits and physical creatures alike. They are easily warded off by other spirits, and are incapable of harming them properly. Should a blood spirit escape into the natural world, however, they would wreak havoc in search for food.

If you have any questions, I have answers. This is a pretty mediocre sketch of an idea I had.
