---
title: Summer sex-ed
date: 2019-07-08
tags:
    - sketch
    - 2019
categories:
    - archive
keywords:
    - sketch
    - 2019
image: /images/sex-ed.jpg
---
{{< button href="https://www.reddit.com/user/MelonKony/comments/ca76da/summer_sex_ed/" >}}Archived from the original article here{{< /button >}}
{{< hint warning >}}

❖ This article predates the project, and **should be considered non-canon**.
{{< /hint >}}

Porno is available over-the-counter at most book stores. Some industry associations attempt to limit availability to minors but generally it's at the discretion of the shopkeeper. Often, shame and embarassment are more powerful tools than legislation in Vekllei.

Generally it's pretty traditional stuff supported by columns and fiction, although it varies between pornographers. It's quite common for well-known Vekllei models to end up in nude shoots either before or after their fame. Nudity is a little more common in Vekllei than it is in the U.S. (at beaches and so on), and that relaxes the moralising of smut somewhat.

That said, the generation previous to Tzipora's (about 20 years prior, so around the early 2050s) were very sex-positive and deviant. Certain cultural iconography from this time is still used in porno -- heavy makeup, curled hair, bare thighs -- but this has prompted a conservatism among Tzipora's generation towards the "vanity" and "superficiality" of their parents' sexual liberation and bare skin. Today it is much more common to have skirts below the knee than above it, and pornography is starting to shift to accommodate the fetishistic and fantasy as opposed to outright explicit desire common in the previous decades.

foreign porno, however, is highly prized as a sort of racialised sexual unorthodoxy (especially of Asian or Black men and women, neither of whom are particularly large racial demographics in Vekllei). It's rare to find and not commonly traded. There are very few bureaus that import pornography, and export is far more common.
