---
title: Inside VOA’s “Flying Wing” Atomic Passenger Jet
date: 2019-12-09
tags:
    - post
    - 2019
categories:
    - landscape
keywords:
    - post
    - 2019
image: /images/horizon.jpg
---
{{< button href="https://www.reddit.com/r/vekllei/comments/e7vqo3/inside_voas_flying_wing_atomic_passenger_jet/" >}}Archived from the original article here{{< /button >}}

**In this limited cross-section of a CN-1 “Horizon” Wing**, the scale of the aircraft is immediately impressed upon the reader. It is nearly four times as wide as the older wide-body passenger jets of yesteryear, and twice as wide as most American and European supersonic jets. It is no coincidence that the “flying wing” concept was only made possible by the development of supersonic jetport infrastructure, with their wide and long runways, at the turn of the century.

Since their introduction, the flying wings have been exclusively a vehicle for leisure and tourism worldwide. The man of business takes a supersonic jet, which permits attendance of company business on two or even three continents in a single day. The wealthy family prefers the comfort and quiet of a large subsonic aircraft like the CN-1, which ensures a timely arrival without the cramped cabins of a fast aircraft.

And transport of the wealthy they are, for only rich cities can afford the land area and facilities of a jetport capable of hosting a flying wing. Jetports are a limited network linking the global elite: Los Angeles, New York, Vekllei, London, Paris, Moscow, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Sydney and Johannesburg, along with some others.

Vekllei International Airways (later renamed Vekllei Overseas Airways, or VOA) flies 22 CN-1s, the first generation of the Vekllei flying wing. We’ll look at more technical details in the next post. 200 passengers can be aboard during flight, and it offers both sleeping cabins and row seating. In the cloudlounges abreast of the main fuselage are a bar and upscale canteen respectively.

Even minor adjustments to the aircraft’s bank are felt violently in the wingtips, and so passenger areas are concentrated near the aircraft’s centre fuselage. Nonetheless, the common areas are closed and passengers are returned to belted seats in the centre fuselage for landing, since adjustments made in flight can easily send passengers (and anything not tied down) into the ceiling.

The panoramic windows of the CN-1 lounges lend to dizzying views unlike any other on this Earth. It is comparable to visiting Moidonnest (Vekllei’s Moon City) and looking back at the Earth for the first time. It recalls the ocean liners of the late 19th century, but her boilers are atomic and her cabins are pressurised. Flying VOA is to enjoy flying as an act in itself; a further proclamation of Vekllei’s longstanding commitment to pleasure in infrastructure and common luxury.

>A nice coloured illustration of a person takes me an hour, tops. Let's just say I vastly underestimated how long it takes to illustrate machines. After an Author update tomorrow, we're going to look at the exterior of the CN-1 and then airline food! Then we'll have a few more different aircraft, including supersonic, helijets, and military aircraft to wrap up SkyMonth. Let me know as always have you have any questions. It’s 4am here and I’ll get to them in the morning
