---
title: What is This Project?
date: 2020-06-30
tags:
    - post
    - guide
    - 2020
categories:
    - author
keywords:
    - post
    - guide
    - 2020
image: /images/whatisvekllei.jpg
---
{{< button href="https://www.reddit.com/r/vekllei/comments/hiow8c/what_is_this_project/" >}}Archived from the original article here{{< /button >}}
{{< hint red >}}

❖ **This article** was featured in [**Issue #2**](/newsdesk/bulletin/2020/2) of the *Atlantic Bulletin*
{{< /hint >}}

**What is Vekllei?**

**Hi, I’m Hobart and I write and draw Vekllei** at Studio MillMint.

This is a pretty complex project. Not just complex insofar as there’s a lot to read about it, but that it uses concepts and terminology you might not be familiar with if this is your first time around utopian fiction.

So Vekllei is a utopia — what does this mean? It’s latin for “no place,” and I use that literally. Vekllei, in a literal sense, cannot exist. Not because I think it could never have existed, or that some part of it is completely unreasonable, or it breaks the laws of physics — but because it exists in a certain place and time that is just isn’t replicable. It’s all built from the ground up.

Vekllei is a very good place to live, **but it is not perfect**. Utopia does not mean “perfect place”. Utopia is a form of social dreaming, much like worldbuilding, linked to the values and priorities of its author. In utopian studies, “utopia” is usually broken down further:

- **Eutopia** — “good place”
- **Dystopia** — “bad place”

Note that both form a part of the “utopia” — this is appropriate, since Vekllei is grounded in a social realism that acknowledges the good and bad parts of life. Indeed, they are inseparable — you cannot have the light without the dark. Obviously, in my eyes, Vekllei is very much a eutopia.
You can read more about Vekllei (the country) by clicking here.

There are three parts to my “social dreaming”:

- **Landscape** — the world and country of Vekllei. When you think of “utopia,” this is it — shining modernist cities against striking landscapes.
- **Character** — not all social dreaming takes place in spaces. Some of it is built around experiences, objects and relationships. Tzipora is a “character utopia” in the sense that she represents a utopian life experience, full of stories good and bad.
- **Author** — Vekllei is a representation of the problems of my life, as a form of escapism. A lot of my posts here reflect dissatisfactions and displacements in my own life — consumer society, commodification of childhood, wage labour, postmodernism, etc. I’m very much a part of this utopian dialectic.

**Let’s run through some of the common queries and misunderstandings about Vekllei**

Who are you?
*A Tasmanian illustrator.*

You’re not Japanese?
*お前はもう死んでいる*

Why is Vekllei a utopia?
*It makes me feel better about my life and the world. It’s escapism; it’s a dream.*

It’s a bit cringe to grandstand your political beliefs, doncha think?
*Vekllei is a personal utopia. That’s what I’m selling. At least you’re getting good opinions.*

Where’s the tension if it’s perfect?
*Vekllei is very cynical and tragic in places. Utopia is just a reflection of the author, good and bad.*

Is there a novel? A story? A comic?
*I’m working on a comic right now. I’m pretty much working on Vekllei full-time so I’m hoping to announce it soon. I’ve got a lot of different Vekllei projects going.*

Where is Vekllei?
*Iceland.*

Why does Vekllei look Japanese?
*Vekllei is like a country of Scandinavians speaking French with an Aussie accent in Shōwa era Japan/Maoist China/Taiwan etc. Vekllei looks however I imagine utopia looks.*

How does that make sense?
*Why can’t it just be cool?*

Is your alt-history thought out?
*Vekllei’s history is whatever I need it to be. I’m always trying to be realistic, but it’s all worked backwards from the setting. I’m not really “worldbuilding” in a typical sense. Very little of it is published, most of it is retrieved on request. Just ask if you have questions.*

Is Vekllei communist?
*No.*

But Vekllei calls itself “petticoat socialist”.
*Vekllei is set in a culture of Marxist revivalism in the 50s and 60s. A lot of Vekllei’s lexicon is set in that context. Vekllei is a decentralised democracy that doesn’t use money. It’s a sort of participatory economy.*

Why the "petticoat"?
*Vekllei is a female country. Womanhood is decommodified. It's maternal, social and friendly where socialist rhetoric is masculine, technocratic and progressive.*

Who is Zelda?
*Zelda is another name for Tzipora. She has two names specifically to confuse you.*

What is the “bulletin”?
*I publish the Atlantic Bulletin once a month via email. It’s got the month’s posts in it as well as facts and tidbits from Vekllei. DM me an email if you want to join.*
