---
title: The Quality of Life Surveillance Commission
fulltitle: The Quality of Life Surveillance Commission

date: 2021-06-29
tags:
- post
- 2021
categories:
- landscape
keywords:
- post
- 2021
image: "/images/qlc.jpg"
---

{{< button href="https://www.reddit.com/r/vekllei/comments/oae0ps/the_quality_of_life_surveillance_commission/" >}}Archived from the original article here{{< /button >}}

**The** **Quality of Life Surveillance Commission (Q.L.C.)** is part of Vekllei's **Fair Work Authority**, and is one of the most important economic regulators in Vekllei today. In a country without money, you can think of it as the payroll of every Vekllei person — the body responsible for the welfare of Vekllei people.

Although Vekllei does not use money domestically, the country is bound by the **Floral Constitution**, the **Dignity** **in Employment Act 2016**,and the **Fair Work Act 2022** to provide regular, measurable increases in the standard of living for Vekllei people. It is the responsibility of the Q.L.C. to track and report these facts, measured by three metrics.

1. The satisfaction of Vekllei people with actionable markets.
2. The availability, quality, and variety of goods.
3. The strength and maintenance of the Thousand Roses Campaign.

The **Thousand Roses Campaign** outlined a programme of comforts and consumer luxuries the Commission felt necessary for the satisfaction of Vekllei people and the opinion of Vekllei internationally.

This programme, called the **Thousand Roses Award**, reveals interesting tendencies within Vekllei's cultural priorities as the country attempted to furnish its population with a standard of living suitable for twenty-first century life.

Here are a few highlights. In its essence, fifty years after the war, the average Vekllei person should:

* Own their home
* Have all their children in school
* Work three or four days a week
* Holiday regularly

In addition, the Vekllei person should:

* Possess three pairs of shoes, for daily, recreational and formal occasions.
* Possess clothing for each day of the week, and for all occasions, so that hygiene and dignity may be preserved.
* Be awarded clothing for any work considered full-time.
* Be guaranteed the provision of cosmetics and personal sanitary items.

This is part of the origin of Vekllei's uniformed work culture — although the Thousand Roses Award did not intend companies to specifically provide uniforms, the simplest and most affordable way of meeting the requirements of the campaign necessitated their use. Not all companies in Vekllei provide uniforms, but they must provide clothing upon request.

The Award also describes the basic rights of a modern Vekllei lifestyle. Any working person should:

* Be guaranteed the provision of personal tools, with which maintenance can be carried out.
* Enjoy equitable and reliable access to cinema, theatre, and live music.
* Cook with fresh produce.

In total, the Thousand Roses Award covers exactly one thousand items that contribute to the state's vision of the postwar Vekllei lifestyle. As we can see here, some of these items are yet to be achieved universally or regularly. The basic premise of the Campaign, however, has been realised — Vekllei people do indeed work few days, own their home, send their children to school and holiday regularly.

As an independent regulator of the Vekllei Government, the Quality of Life Surveillance Commission continues to hold the promises of the past to account. In a manner closely related to the Vekllei Census, Q.L.C. agents interview people throughout the year, tallying their pleasures and grievances. At the end of each year, the Commission produces a detailed report cataloguing the successes and failures that affect the Postwar Vekllei Person, and determine what Floral Society still owes them. One day, the debt will be paid in full.
