---
title: The Common Navy
fulltitle: The Common Navy
date: 2025-07-16
tags:
- 2025
characters: []
categories:
- infographics
- machines & vehicles
- police & military
keywords:
- 2025
rgb: 98, 143, 209
url: /stories/common-navy/
image: /images/fullres/common-navy.jpg
caption: Tzipora likes this drink.
---
The [[Common Navy]] is a parallel service of the [[vekllei|Commonwealth]] with naval ranks, pensions and traditions but no cannons or missiles. Instead, the Great White Fleet serves the conscience of mankind, with a mandate of compassion, mercy and international solidarity.

"Justice by bread or sword" is the military creed of Vekllei, but it is easy to understate the sincere belief the country has in both of those things, as two sides of the same commitment to dignity. So rarely does bread receive even a fraction of the attention of the sword.

The Common Navy is an expression of the Commonwealth as a country and its values, but also an expression of internationalism and the declaration of human rights achieved by the United Nations in their victory over Nazism. A hundred years on they carry on this work. It is not a simple charity at the mercy of real power; the Common Navy is real power in humanitarian form. It is an independent service where the easing of suffering is supplied, organised and prosecuted as though it were a conventional war.

Recent ports of call include Bangkok, where the Atom-class supported energy relief after the melt down of the Chaiyaphum Atom Station. The navy also completed a tour of West Africa to assist in the technical schooling of engineers.